A normal heartbeat begins
with a group of specialized
pacemaker cells called the
sinoatrial node
in the heart’s upper,
right chamber, or atrium.
Regular electrical impulses
from these cells
cause the atria to contract
or squeeze,
pushing blood into the
lower chambers or ventricles.
Traveling down to a junction called
the atrioventricular, or AV node
and on to the ventricles,
these impulses then signal
the ventricles to contract.
This pumps blood out to the lungs
and the rest of the body.
Ventricular Fibrillation, or Vfib,
means the electrical impulse in the heart
is no longer coordinated.
Normal contraction of the ventricles
is replaced with heart muscle quivering,
and when contraction of the
heart muscles is not coordinated,
blood can’t be pumped to the body.